docs/specs/user-export.md, before:

# User Export

User Export allows the developer to bulk export all users from Authgear to a file.

## About User Export

- It is not a synchronous operation. The export is created and runs in the background. The developer can query the status of it.

## Create an export

The endpoint is `POST /_api/admin/users/export`.

- The endpoint requires Admin API JWT token to access.
- This endpoint is added to Admin API server.
- It is not part of the GraphQL API.
- At most 1 running export at any given moment for a project.
- The rate limit of creating a export is 24 per 24h. This means failed requests do not count.
- A pending export lasts for 24h before it expires.

### The request body of Create an export

```
{
  "format": "ndjson",
  "csv": {
    "fields": [
      {
        "json_pointer": "/sub",
        "field_name": "user_id"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

- `format`: Required. It must be `ndjson` or `csv`.
  - `ndjson`: The output is a ndjson file. See https://github.com/ndjson/ndjson-spec
  - `csv`: The output is a CSV file. See https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4180
- `csv.fields`: Required when `format` is `csv`. It must be an non-empty array.
  - `csv.fields.json_pointer`: Required. Select which field in the record to output. It must be a JSON pointer. See https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6901 and [The record format](#the-record-format)
  - `csv.fields.field_name`: Optional. If it is not given, then the field name is derived from `json_pointer` by taking the last reference token. For example, if the JSON pointers are `/sub` and `/address/formatted`, then the field names are `sub` and `formatted` respectively. If the field names are not unique, it is an error when the export is initiated. An error is immediately returned in this case, the import job is not created. See [The error response of Create an export](#the-error-response-of-create-an-export)

### The response body of Create an export

See [The response body](#the-response-body).

### The error response of Create an export

> we have a global middleware of handling Admin API authentication,
> that middleware returns 403 without a JSON body when authentication failed.

|Description|Name|Reason|Info|
|---|---|---|---|
|When the rate limit exceeded|`TooManyRequest`|`RateLimited`|{"bucket_name": "UserExport"}|
|When there is a running export|`TooManyRequest`|`MaximumConcurrentJobLimitExceeded`|-|
|When the input fails the validation|`Invalid`|`ValidationFailed`|The info should contain the JSON schema validation output|
|When the field names are not unique|`Invalid`|`UserExportNonUniqueFieldNames`|Output the full list of "field_names". Like `{"field_names": ["sub", "a", "b", "a"]}`|

## Get the status of an export

The endpoint is `GET /_api/admin/users/export/{ID}`

- The endpoint requires Admin API JWT token to access.
- This endpoint is added to Admin API server.
- It is not part of the GraphQL API.
- The result of a completed export lasts for 24h before it expires.
- When the export is completed, the response body includes a freshly signed URL to the export file. The signed URL is valid for 60s.

### The response body of Get the status of an export

See [The response body](#the-response-body).

### The error response of Get the status of an export

> we have a global middleware of handling Admin API authentication,
> that middleware returns 403 without a JSON body when authentication failed.

|Description|Name|Reason|Info|
|---|---|---|---|
|When the given ID does not refer to an export|`NotFound`|`TaskNotFound`|-|

## The response body

The response body of a just created export looks like

```
{
  "id": "some_opaque_string",
  "status": "pending",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
  "request": {
    "format": "ndjson"
  }
}
```

The response body of a completed export looks like

```
{
  "id": "some_opaque_string",
  "status": "completed",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
  "completed_at": "2024-01-01T00:01:00.000Z",
  "request": {
    "format": "ndjson"
  },
  "download_url": "https://some-signed-url?with-a=signature"
}
```

The response body of a failed export looks like

```
{
  "id": "some_opaque_string",
  "status": "completed",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
  "failed_at": "2024-01-01T00:01:00.000Z",
  "request": {
    "format": "ndjson"
  },
  "error": {
    "message": "blahblahblah",
    "reason": "SomeReason"
  }
}
```

- `error`: The API error object we have been using in all other API.

## The export file

### The name of the export file

The name of the export file is `{{ .AppID }}-{{ .TaskID }}-{{ .TaskCompletedAtInISO9601BasicFormat}}.{ndjson|csv}`.

For example, given

- The project is `myapp`.
- The id of the task is `userexport_deadbeef`.
- The completion time of the task is `2024-09-09T10:46:51.275Z`.
- The requested `format` is `ndjson`.

The name of the export file is `myapp-userexport_deadbeef-20240909104651Z.ndjson`.

### The metadata of the export file

- `Content-Disposition`: `attachment; filename=FILENAME`
- `Content-Type`: `application/x-ndjson` for `ndjson`, `text/csv` for `csv`.

Since the export file is accessed with a signed URL of a short validity, setting `Cache-Control` is not really helpful.

### The housekeep of the export file

- GCS: https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/lifecycle
- S3: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lifecycle-mgmt.html
- Azure: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/lifecycle-management-overview?tabs=azure-portal

The above cloud storage can be configured to delete objects of a certain age.
So there is no need to housekeep manually.

### The content of the export file

- If `format` is `ndjson`, then the file contains a record (See [The record format](#the-record-format)) per line.
  - Each line is terminated by a `\n` (The newline character).
  - The number of lines correspond to the number of exported records.
  - Exporting in a project without any user will in a file of zero length.

> Implementation note: Please make sure each line is ended by a `\n`!

- If `format` is `csv`, then the file starts with a header, followed by records.
  - The header correspond to the `csv.fields`.
  - The order of the field in the header correspond to the order in `csv.fields`.
  - The name of the field is taken from `csv.fields.field_name` if it is specified, or derived from `csv.fields.json_pointer` if `field_name` is absent.
  - The CSV follows the format documented in RFC4180. Internally, it is handled with https://pkg.go.dev/encoding/csv.
  - If `json_pointer` resolves to
    - JSON string, then the string is written directly.
    - JSON number, then the number is written directly.
    - JSON boolean, then `true` or `false` is written directly.
    - JSON null, then an empty string is written.
    - non-existing value, then an empty string is written.
    - JSON array, then the compact JSON serialization is written.
    - JSON object, then the compact JSON serialization is written.

For example, given the request

```
{
  "format": "csv",
  "csv": {
    "fields": [
      {
        "json_pointer": "/sub"
      },
      {
        "json_pointer": "/roles"
      },
      {
        "json_pointer": "/address"
      },
      {
        "json_pointer": "/address/formatted",
        "field_name": "address_formatted"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

, and a record

```
{
  "sub": "opaque_user_id",

  "address": {
    "formatted": "1 Unnamed Road, Central, Hong Kong Island, HK",
    "street_address": "1 Unnamed Road",
    "locality": "Central",
    "region": "Hong Kong",
    "postal_code": "N/A",
    "country": "HK"
  },

  "roles": ["role_a", "role_b"]
}
```

The content of the file is

```
sub,roles,address,address_formatted
opaque_user_id,"[""role_a"",""role_b""]","{""formatted"":""1 Unnamed Road, Central, Hong Kong Island, HK"",""street_address"":""1 Unnamed Road"",""locality"":""Central"",""region"":""Hong Kong"",""postal_code"":""N/A"",""country"":""HK""}","1 Unnamed Road, Central, Hong Kong Island, HK"
```

### The record format

Here is an example of the record

```
{
  "sub": "opaque_user_id",

  "preferred_username": "louischan",
  "email": "louischan@oursky.com",
  "phone_number": "+85298765432",

  "email_verified": true,
  "phone_number_verified": true,

  "name": "Louis Chan",
  "given_name": "Louis",
  "family_name": "Chan",
  "middle_name": "",
  "nickname": "Lou",
  "profile": "https://example.com",
  "picture": "https://example.com",
  "website": "https://example.com",
  "gender": "male",
  "birthdate": "1990-01-01",
  "zoneinfo": "Asia/Hong_Kong",
  "locale": "zh-Hant-HK",
  "address": {
    "formatted": "1 Unnamed Road, Central, Hong Kong Island, HK",
    "street_address": "1 Unnamed Road",
    "locality": "Central",
    "region": "Hong Kong",
    "postal_code": "N/A",
    "country": "HK"
  },

  "custom_attributes": {
    "member_id": "123456789"
  },

  "roles": ["role_a", "role_b"],
  "groups": ["group_a"],

  "disabled": false
}
```

- `sub`: The Authgear user ID.
- `preferred_username`: The primary username of the user.
- `email`: The primary email of the user.
  - `email_verified`: Whether the email is verified.
- `phone_number`: The primary phone number of the user.
  - `phone_number_verified`: Whether the phone number is verified.
- `name`, `given_name`, `family_name`, `middle_name`, `nickname`: The OIDC standard attributes about names. See https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#StandardClaims
- `profile`, `picture`, `website`, `gender`, `birthdate`, `zoneinfo`, `locale`, `address`: Other OIDC standard attributes. See https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#StandardClaims
- `custom_attributes`: All custom_attributes of the user.
- `roles`: The role keys of all roles directly assigned to the user. This DOES NOT include roles implied by the groups.
- `groups`: The group keys of all groups assigned to the user.
- `disabled`: Whether the user is disabled.

> TODO: Support exporting `identities`

> Future work: Support exporting the password hash.

## Ceveats

Since we do not export the password hash and MFA information.
The exported JSON record cannot be imported into another Authgear project directly.

Commit message:

Document the rate limit of creating a export is configurable in the future

docs/specs/user-export.md, after:

# User Export

User Export allows the developer to bulk export all users from Authgear to a file.

## About User Export

- It is not a synchronous operation. The export is created and runs in the background. The developer can query the status of it.

## Create an export

The endpoint is `POST /_api/admin/users/export`.

- The endpoint requires Admin API JWT token to access.
- This endpoint is added to Admin API server.
- It is not part of the GraphQL API.
- At most 1 running export at any given moment for a project.
- The rate limit of creating a export is 24 per 24h. This means failed requests do not count. This rate limit is hard-coded at the moment. It could be configurable in the future.
- A pending export lasts for 24h before it expires.

### The request body of Create an export

```
{
  "format": "ndjson",
  "csv": {
    "fields": [
      {
        "json_pointer": "/sub",
        "field_name": "user_id"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

- `format`: Required. It must be `ndjson` or `csv`.
  - `ndjson`: The output is a ndjson file. See https://github.com/ndjson/ndjson-spec
  - `csv`: The output is a CSV file. See https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4180
- `csv.fields`: Required when `format` is `csv`. It must be an non-empty array.
  - `csv.fields.json_pointer`: Required. Select which field in the record to output. It must be a JSON pointer. See https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6901 and [The record format](#the-record-format)
  - `csv.fields.field_name`: Optional. If it is not given, then the field name is derived from `json_pointer` by taking the last reference token. For example, if the JSON pointers are `/sub` and `/address/formatted`, then the field names are `sub` and `formatted` respectively. If the field names are not unique, it is an error when the export is initiated. An error is immediately returned in this case, the import job is not created. See [The error response of Create an export](#the-error-response-of-create-an-export)

### The response body of Create an export

See [The response body](#the-response-body).

### The error response of Create an export

> we have a global middleware of handling Admin API authentication,
> that middleware returns 403 without a JSON body when authentication failed.

|Description|Name|Reason|Info|
|---|---|---|---|
|When the rate limit exceeded|`TooManyRequest`|`RateLimited`|{"bucket_name": "UserExport"}|
|When there is a running export|`TooManyRequest`|`MaximumConcurrentJobLimitExceeded`|-|
|When the input fails the validation|`Invalid`|`ValidationFailed`|The info should contain the JSON schema validation output|
|When the field names are not unique|`Invalid`|`UserExportNonUniqueFieldNames`|Output the full list of "field_names". Like `{"field_names": ["sub", "a", "b", "a"]}`|

## Get the status of an export

The endpoint is `GET /_api/admin/users/export/{ID}`

- The endpoint requires Admin API JWT token to access.
- This endpoint is added to Admin API server.
- It is not part of the GraphQL API.
- The result of a completed export lasts for 24h before it expires.
- When the export is completed, the response body includes a freshly signed URL to the export file. The signed URL is valid for 60s.

### The response body of Get the status of an export

See [The response body](#the-response-body).

### The error response of Get the status of an export

> we have a global middleware of handling Admin API authentication,
> that middleware returns 403 without a JSON body when authentication failed.

|Description|Name|Reason|Info|
|---|---|---|---|
|When the given ID does not refer to an export|`NotFound`|`TaskNotFound`|-|

## The response body

The response body of a just created export looks like

```
{
  "id": "some_opaque_string",
  "status": "pending",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
  "request": {
    "format": "ndjson"
  }
}
```

The response body of a completed export looks like

```
{
  "id": "some_opaque_string",
  "status": "completed",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
  "completed_at": "2024-01-01T00:01:00.000Z",
  "request": {
    "format": "ndjson"
  },
  "download_url": "https://some-signed-url?with-a=signature"
}
```

The response body of a failed export looks like

```
{
  "id": "some_opaque_string",
  "status": "completed",
  "created_at": "2024-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
  "failed_at": "2024-01-01T00:01:00.000Z",
  "request": {
    "format": "ndjson"
  },
  "error": {
    "message": "blahblahblah",
    "reason": "SomeReason"
  }
}
```

- `error`: The API error object we have been using in all other API.

## The export file

### The name of the export file

The name of the export file is `{{ .AppID }}-{{ .TaskID }}-{{ .TaskCompletedAtInISO9601BasicFormat}}.{ndjson|csv}`.

For example, given

- The project is `myapp`.
- The id of the task is `userexport_deadbeef`.
- The completion time of the task is `2024-09-09T10:46:51.275Z`.
- The requested `format` is `ndjson`.

The name of the export file is `myapp-userexport_deadbeef-20240909104651Z.ndjson`.

### The metadata of the export file

- `Content-Disposition`: `attachment; filename=FILENAME`
- `Content-Type`: `application/x-ndjson` for `ndjson`, `text/csv` for `csv`.

Since the export file is accessed with a signed URL of a short validity, setting `Cache-Control` is not really helpful.

### The housekeep of the export file

- GCS: https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/lifecycle
- S3: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lifecycle-mgmt.html
- Azure: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/lifecycle-management-overview?tabs=azure-portal

The above cloud storage can be configured to delete objects of a certain age.
So there is no need to housekeep manually.

### The content of the export file

- If `format` is `ndjson`, then the file contains a record (See [The record format](#the-record-format)) per line.
  - Each line is terminated by a `\n` (The newline character).
  - The number of lines correspond to the number of exported records.
  - Exporting in a project without any user will in a file of zero length.

> Implementation note: Please make sure each line is ended by a `\n`!

- If `format` is `csv`, then the file starts with a header, followed by records.
  - The header correspond to the `csv.fields`.
  - The order of the field in the header correspond to the order in `csv.fields`.
  - The name of the field is taken from `csv.fields.field_name` if it is specified, or derived from `csv.fields.json_pointer` if `field_name` is absent.
  - The CSV follows the format documented in RFC4180. Internally, it is handled with https://pkg.go.dev/encoding/csv.
  - If `json_pointer` resolves to
    - JSON string, then the string is written directly.
    - JSON number, then the number is written directly.
    - JSON boolean, then `true` or `false` is written directly.
    - JSON null, then an empty string is written.
    - non-existing value, then an empty string is written.
    - JSON array, then the compact JSON serialization is written.
    - JSON object, then the compact JSON serialization is written.

For example, given the request

```
{
  "format": "csv",
  "csv": {
    "fields": [
      {
        "json_pointer": "/sub"
      },
      {
        "json_pointer": "/roles"
      },
      {
        "json_pointer": "/address"
      },
      {
        "json_pointer": "/address/formatted",
        "field_name": "address_formatted"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

, and a record

```
{
  "sub": "opaque_user_id",

  "address": {
    "formatted": "1 Unnamed Road, Central, Hong Kong Island, HK",
    "street_address": "1 Unnamed Road",
    "locality": "Central",
    "region": "Hong Kong",
    "postal_code": "N/A",
    "country": "HK"
  },

  "roles": ["role_a", "role_b"]
}
```

The content of the file is

```
sub,roles,address,address_formatted
opaque_user_id,"[""role_a"",""role_b""]","{""formatted"":""1 Unnamed Road, Central, Hong Kong Island, HK"",""street_address"":""1 Unnamed Road"",""locality"":""Central"",""region"":""Hong Kong"",""postal_code"":""N/A"",""country"":""HK""}","1 Unnamed Road, Central, Hong Kong Island, HK"
```

### The record format

Here is an example of the record

```
{
  "sub": "opaque_user_id",

  "preferred_username": "louischan",
  "email": "louischan@oursky.com",
  "phone_number": "+85298765432",

  "email_verified": true,
  "phone_number_verified": true,

  "name": "Louis Chan",
  "given_name": "Louis",
  "family_name": "Chan",
  "middle_name": "",
  "nickname": "Lou",
  "profile": "https://example.com",
  "picture": "https://example.com",
  "website": "https://example.com",
  "gender": "male",
  "birthdate": "1990-01-01",
  "zoneinfo": "Asia/Hong_Kong",
  "locale": "zh-Hant-HK",
  "address": {
    "formatted": "1 Unnamed Road, Central, Hong Kong Island, HK",
    "street_address": "1 Unnamed Road",
    "locality": "Central",
    "region": "Hong Kong",
    "postal_code": "N/A",
    "country": "HK"
  },

  "custom_attributes": {
    "member_id": "123456789"
  },

  "roles": ["role_a", "role_b"],
  "groups": ["group_a"],

  "disabled": false
}
```

- `sub`: The Authgear user ID.
- `preferred_username`: The primary username of the user.
- `email`: The primary email of the user.
  - `email_verified`: Whether the email is verified.
- `phone_number`: The primary phone number of the user.
  - `phone_number_verified`: Whether the phone number is verified.
- `name`, `given_name`, `family_name`, `middle_name`, `nickname`: The OIDC standard attributes about names. See https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#StandardClaims
- `profile`, `picture`, `website`, `gender`, `birthdate`, `zoneinfo`, `locale`, `address`: Other OIDC standard attributes. See https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#StandardClaims
- `custom_attributes`: All custom_attributes of the user.
- `roles`: The role keys of all roles directly assigned to the user. This DOES NOT include roles implied by the groups.
- `groups`: The group keys of all groups assigned to the user.
- `disabled`: Whether the user is disabled.

> TODO: Support exporting `identities`

> Future work: Support exporting the password hash.

## Ceveats

Since we do not export the password hash and MFA information.
The exported JSON record cannot be imported into another Authgear project directly.
